<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 15</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-15" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XV</h2>
			<p>Costigan was not surprised to see the man he had known as Birkenfeld in Uranium’s ornate conference room. He had not expected, however, to see Isaacson. He knew, of course, that Spaceways owned Uranium, <abbr>Inc.</abbr>, and the planet Eridan, lock, stock, and barrel; but it never entered his modest mind that his case would be of sufficient importance to warrant the personal attention of the Big Noise himself. Hence the sight of that suave and unrevealing face gave the putative Jones a more than temporary qualm. Isaacson was top-bracket stuff, ‘way out of his class. Virgil Samms ought to be taking this assignment, but since he wasn’t⁠—</p>
			<p>But instead of being an inquisition, the meeting was friendly and informal from the start. They complimented him upon the soundness of his judgment and the accuracy of his decisions. They thanked him, both with words and with a considerable sum of expendable credits. They encouraged him to talk about himself, but there was nothing whatever of the star-chamber or of cross-examination. The last question was representative of the whole conference.</p>
			<p>“One other thing, Jones, has me slightly baffled,” Isaacson said, with a really winning smile. “Since you do not drink, and since you were not in search of feminine … er … companionship, just why did you go down to Roaring Jack’s dive?”</p>
			<p>“Two reasons,” Jones said, with a somewhat shamefaced grin. “The minor one isn’t easy to explain, but … well, I hadn’t been having an exactly easy time of it on Earth … you all know about that, I suppose?”</p>
			<p>They knew.</p>
			<p>“Well, I was taking a very dim view of things in general, and a good fight would get it out of my system. It always does.”</p>
			<p>“I see. And the major reason?”</p>
			<p>“I knew, of course, that I was on probation. I would have to get promoted, and fast, or stay sunk forever. To get promoted fast, a man can either be enough of a bootlicker to be pulled up from on high, or he can be shoved up by the men he is working with. The best way to get a crowd of hard-rock men to like you is to lick a few of ’em⁠—off hours, of course, and according to Hoyle⁠—and the more of ’em you can lick at once, the better. I’m pretty good at rough-and-tumble brawling, so I gambled that the cops would step in before I got banged up too much. I won.”</p>
			<p>“I see,” Isaacson said again, in an entirely different tone. He did see, now. “The first technique is so universally used that the possibility of the second did not occur to me. Nice work⁠—<em>very</em> nice.” He turned to the other members of the Board. “This, I believe, concludes the business of the meeting?”</p>
			<p>For some reason or other Isaacson nodded slightly as he asked the question; and one by one, as though in concurrence, the others nodded in reply. The meeting broke up. Outside the door, however, the magnate did not go about his own business nor send Jones about his. Instead:</p>
			<p>“I would like to show you, if I may, the aboveground part of our Works?”</p>
			<p>“My time is yours, sir. I am interested.”</p>
			<p>It is unnecessary here to go into the details of a Civilization’s greatest uranium operation; the storage bins, the grinders, the Wilfley tables and slime tanks, the flotation sluices, the roasters and reducers, the processes of solution and crystallization and recrystallization, of final oxidation and reduction. Suffice it to say that Isaacson showed Jones the whole immensity of Uranium Works Number One. The trip ended on the top floor of the towering Administration Building, in a heavily-screened room containing a desk, a couple of chairs, and a tremendously massive safe.</p>
			<p>“Smoke up.” Isaacson indicated a package of Jones’ favorite brand of cigarettes and lighted a cigar. “You knew that you were under test. I wonder, though, if you knew how much of it was testing?”</p>
			<p>“All of it.” Jones grinned. “Except for the big blow, of course.”</p>
			<p>“Of course.”</p>
			<p>“There were too many possibilities, of too many different kinds, too pat. I might warn you, though⁠—I could have got away clear with that half-million.”</p>
			<p>“The possibility existed.” Surprisingly, Isaacson did not tell him that the trap was more subtle than it had appeared to be. “It was, however, worth the risk. Why didn’t you?”</p>
			<p>“Because I figure on making more than that, a little later, and I might live longer to spend it.”</p>
			<p>“Sound thinking, my boy⁠—really sound. Now⁠—you noticed, of course, the vote at the end of the meeting?”</p>
			<p>Jones had noticed it; and, although he did not say so, he had been wondering about it ever since. The older man strolled over to the safe and opened it, revealing a single, startlingly small package.</p>
			<p>“You passed, unanimously; you are now learning what you have to know. Not that we trust you unreservedly. You will be watched for a long time, and before you can make one false step, you will die.”</p>
			<p>“That would seem to be good business, sir.”</p>
			<p>“Glad you look at it that way⁠—we thought you would. You saw the Works. Quite an operation, don’t you think?”</p>
			<p>“Immense, sir. The biggest thing I ever saw.”</p>
			<p>“What would you say, then, to the idea of this office being our real headquarters, of that little package there being our real business?” He swung the safe door shut, spun the knob.</p>
			<p>“It would have been highly surprising a couple of hours ago.” Costigan could not afford to appear stupid, nor to possess too much knowledge. He had to steer an extremely difficult middle course. “After the climax of this buildup, though, it wouldn’t seem at all impossible. Or that there were wheels⁠—plenty of ’em!⁠—within wheels.”</p>
			<p>“Smart!” Isaacson applauded. “And what would you think might be in that package? This room is ray-proof.”</p>
			<p>“Against anything the Galactic Patrol can swing?”</p>
			<p>“Positively.”</p>
			<p>“Well, then, it <em>might</em> be something beginning with the letter” he flicked two fingers, almost invisibly fast, into a T and went on without a break “M, as in morphine.”</p>
			<p>“Your caution and restraint are commendable. If I had any remaining doubt as to your ability, it is gone.” He paused, frowning. As belief in ability increased, that in sincerity lessened. This doubt, this questioning, existed every time a new executive was initiated into the mysteries of Department Q. The Board’s judgment was good. They had slipped only twice, and those two errors had been corrected easily enough. The fellow had been warned once; that was enough. He took the plunge. “You will work with the Assistant Works Manager here until you understand the duties of the position. You will be transferred to Tellus as Assistant Works Manager there. Your principal duties will, however, be concerned with Department Q⁠—which you will head up one day if you make good. And, just incidentally, when you go to Tellus, a package like that one in the safe will go with you.”</p>
			<p>“Oh … I see. I’ll make good, sir.” Jones let Isaacson see his jaw-muscles tighten in resolve. “It may take a little time for me to learn my way around, sir, but I’ll learn it.”</p>
			<p>“I’m sure you will. And now, to go into greater detail. …”</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Virgil Samms had to be sure of his facts. More than that, he had to be able to prove them; not merely to the satisfaction of a law-enforcement officer, but beyond any reasonable doubt of the hardest-headed member of a cynical and skeptical jury. Wherefore Jack Kinnison and Mase Northrop took up the thionite trail at the exact point where, each trip, George Olmstead had had to abandon it; in the atmosphere of Cavenda. And fortunately, not too much preparation was required.</p>
			<p>Cavenda was, as has been intimated, a primitive world. Its native people, humanoid in type, had developed a culture approximating in some respects that of the North American Indian at about the time of Columbus, in others that of the ancient Nomads of Araby. Thus a couple of wandering natives, unrecognizable under their dirty stormproof blankets and their scarcely thinner layers of grease and grime, watched impassively, incuriously, while a box floated pendant from its parachute from sky to ground. Mounted upon their uncouth steeds, they followed that box when it was hauled to the white man’s village. Unlike many of the other natives, these two did not shuffle into that village, to lean silently against a rock or a wall awaiting their turns to exchange a few hours of simple labor for a container of a new and highly potent beverage. They did, however, keep themselves constantly and minutely informed as to everything these strange, devil-ridden white men did. One of these pseudo-natives wandered off into the wilderness two or three days before the huge thing-which-flies-without-wings left ground; the other immediately afterward.</p>
			<p>Thus the departure of the spaceship from Cavenda was recorded, as was its arrival at Eridan. It had been extremely difficult for the Patrol’s engineers to devise ways and means of tracing that ship from departure to arrival without exciting suspicion, but it had not proved impossible.</p>
			<p>And Jack Kinnison, lounging idly and elegantly in the concourse of Danopolis Spaceport, seethed imperceptibly. Having swallowed a tiny Service Special capsule that morning, he knew that he had been under continuous spy-ray inspection for over two hours. He had not given himself away⁠—practically everybody screened their inside coat pockets and hip pockets, and the cat-whisker lead from Lens to leg simply could not be seen⁠—but for all the good they were doing him his ultra-instruments might just as well have been back on Tellus.</p>
			<p>“Mase!” he sent, with no change whatever in the vapid expression then on his face. “I’m still covered. Are you?”</p>
			<p>“Covered!” the answering thought was a snort. “They’re covering me like water covers a submarine!”</p>
			<p>“Keep tuned. I’ll call Spud. Spud!”</p>
			<p>“Come in, Jack.” Conway Costigan, alone now in the sanctum of Department Q, did not seem to be busy, but he was.</p>
			<p>“That red herring they told us to drag across the trail was too damned red. They must be touchier than fulminate to spy-work on their armed forces⁠—neither Mase nor I can do a lick of work. Anybody else covered?”</p>
			<p>“No. All clear.”</p>
			<p>“Good. Tell them the zwilnik blockers took us out.”</p>
			<p>“I’ll do that. Distance only, or is somebody on your tail?”</p>
			<p>“Somebody; and I mean <em>some body</em>. A slick chick with a classy chassis; a blonde, with great, big come-hither eyes. Too good to be true; especially the falsies. Wiring, my friend⁠—and I haven’t been able to get a close look, but I wouldn’t wonder if her nostrils had a skillionth of a whillimeter too much expansion. I want a spy-ray op⁠—is it safe to use Fred?” Kinnison referred to the grizzled engineer now puttering about in a certain spaceship; not the one in which he and Northrop had come to Eridan.</p>
			<p>“Definitely not. I can do it myself and still stay very much in character. … No, I don’t know her. Not surprising, of course, since the policy here is never to let the right hand know what the left is doing. How about you, Mase? Have you got a little girlfriend, too?”</p>
			<p>“Yea, verily, brother; but not little. More my size.” Northrop pointed out a tall, trim brunette, strolling along with the effortless, consciously unconscious poise of the professional model.</p>
			<p>“Hm … m … m. I don’t know her, either,” Costigan reported, “but both of them are wearing four-inch spy-ray blocks and are probably wired up like Christmas trees. By inference, P-gun proof. I can’t penetrate, of course, but maybe I can get a viewpoint. … You’re right, Jack. Nostrils plugged. Anti-thionite, anti-Vee-Two, anti-everything. In fact, antisocial. I’ll spread their pictures around and see if anybody knows either of them.”</p>
			<p>He did so, and over a hundred of the Patrol’s shrewdest operatives⁠—upon this occasion North America had invaded Eridan in force⁠—studied and thought. No one knew the tall brunette, but⁠—</p>
			<p>“I know the blonde.” This was Parker of Washington, a Service ace for twenty five years. “ ‘Hellcat Hazel’ DeForce, the hardest-boiled babe unhung. Watch your step around her; she’s just as handy with a knife and knockout drops as she is with a gun.”</p>
			<p>“Thanks, Parker. I’ve heard of her.” Costigan was thinking fast. “Freelance. No way of telling who she’s working for at the moment.” This was a statement, not a question.</p>
			<p>“Only that it would have to be somebody with a lot of money. Her price is high. That all?”</p>
			<p>“That’s all, fellows.” Then, to Jack and Northrop: “My thought is that you two guys are completely out-classed⁠—out-weighed, out-numbered, out-manned, and out-gunned. Undressed, you’re sitting ducks; and if you put out any screens it’ll crystallize their suspicions and they’ll grab you right then⁠—or maybe even knock you off. You’d better get out of here at full blast; you can’t do any more good here, the way things are.”</p>
			<p>“Sure we can!” Kinnison protested. “You wanted a diversion, didn’t you?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, but you already. …”</p>
			<p>“What we’ve done already isn’t a patch to what we can do next. We can set up such a diversion that the boys can walk right on the thionite-carrier’s heels without anybody paying any attention. By the way, you don’t know yet who is going to carry it, do you?”</p>
			<p>“No. No penetration at all.”</p>
			<p>“You soon will, bucko. Watch our smoke!”</p>
			<p>“What do you think you’re going to do?” Costigan demanded, sharply.</p>
			<p>“This.” Jack explained. “And don’t try to say no. We’re on our own, you know.”</p>
			<p>“We … l … l … it sounds good, and if you can pull it off it will help no end. Go ahead.”</p>
			<p>The demurely luscious blonde stared disconsolately at the bulletin board, upon which another thirty minutes was being added to the time of arrival of a ship already three hours late. She picked up a book, glanced at its cover, put it down. Her hand moved toward a magazine, drew back, dropped idly into her lap. She sighed, stifled a yawn prettily, leaned backward in her seat⁠—in such a position, Jack noticed, that he could not see into her nostrils⁠—and closed her eyes. And Jack Kinnison, coming visibly to a decision, sat down beside her.</p>
			<p>“Pardon me, miss, but I feel just like you look. Can you tell me why convention decrees that two people, stuck in this concourse by arrivals that nobody knows when will arrive, have got to suffer alone when they could have so much more fun suffering together?”</p>
			<p>The girl’s eyes opened slowly; she was neither startled, nor afraid, nor⁠—it seemed⁠—even interested. In fact, she gazed at him with so much disinterest and for so long a time that he began to wonder⁠—was she going to play sweet and innocent to the end?</p>
			<p>“Yes, conventions <em>are</em> stupid, sometimes,” she admitted finally, her lovely lips curving into the beginnings of a smile. Her voice, low and sweet, matched perfectly the rest of her charming self. “After all, perfectly nice people do meet informally on shipboard; why not in concourses?”</p>
			<p>“Why not, indeed? And I’m perfectly nice people, I assure you. Willi Borden is the name. My friends call me Bill. And you?”</p>
			<p>“Beatrice Bailey; Bee for short. Tell me what you like, and we’ll talk about it.”</p>
			<p>“Why talk, when we could be eating? I’m with a guy. He’s out on the field somewhere⁠—a big bruiser with a pencil-stripe black mustache. Maybe you saw him talking to me a while back?”</p>
			<p>“I think so, now that you mention him. Too big⁠—<em>much</em> too big.” The girl spoke carelessly, but managed to make it very clear that Jack Kinnison was just exactly the right size. “Why?”</p>
			<p>“I told him I’d have supper with him. Shall we hunt him up and eat together?”</p>
			<p>“Why not? Is he alone?”</p>
			<p>“He was, when I saw him last.” Although Jack knew exactly where Northrop was, and who was with him, he had to play safe; he did not know how much this “Bee Bailey” really knew. “He knows a lot more people around here than I do, though, so maybe he isn’t now. Let me carry some of that plunder?”</p>
			<p>“You might carry those books⁠—thanks. But the field is so <em>big</em>⁠—how do you expect to find him? Or do you know where he is?”</p>
			<p>“Uh-uh!” he denied, vigorously. This was the critical moment. She certainly wasn’t suspicious⁠—yet⁠—but she was showing signs of not wanting to go out there, and if she refused to go. … “To be honest, I don’t care whether I find him or not⁠—the idea of ditching him appeals to me more and more. So how about this? We’ll dash out to the third dock⁠—just so I won’t have to actually lie about looking for him⁠—and dash right back here. Or wouldn’t you rather have it a twosome?”</p>
			<p>“I refuse to answer, by advice of counsel.” The girl laughed gaily, but her answer was plain enough.</p>
			<p>Their rate of progress was by no means a dash, and Kinnison did not look⁠—with his eyes⁠—for Northrop. Nevertheless, just south of the third dock, the two young couples met.</p>
			<p>“My cousin, Grace James,” Northrop said, without a tremor or a quiver. “Wild Willi Borden, Grace⁠—usually called Baldy on account of his hair.”</p>
			<p>The girls were introduced; each vouchsafing the other a completely meaningless smile and a colorlessly conventional word of greeting. Were they, in fact as in seeming, total strangers? Or were they in fact working together as closely as were the two young Lensmen themselves? If that was acting, it was a beautiful job; neither man could detect the slightest flaw in the performance of either girl.</p>
			<p>“Whither away, pilot?” Jack allowed no lapse of time. “You know all the places around here. Lead us to a good one.”</p>
			<p>“This way, my old and fragrant fruit.” Northrop led off with a flourish, and again Jack tensed. The walk led straight past the third-class, apparently deserted dock of which a certain ultra-fast vessel was the only occupant. If nothing happened for fifteen more seconds. …</p>
			<p>Nothing did. The laughing, chattering four came abreast of the portal. The door swung open and the Lensmen went into action.</p>
			<p>They did not like to strong-arm women, but speed was their first consideration, with safety a close second; and it is impossible for a man to make speed while carrying a conscious, lithe, strong, heavily-armed woman in such a position that she cannot use fists, feet, teeth, gun or knife. An unconscious woman, on the other hand, can be carried easily and safely enough. Therefore Jack spun his partner around, forced both of her hands into one of his. The free hand flashed upward toward the neck; a hard finger pressed unerringly against a nerve; the girl went limp. The two victims were hustled aboard and the spaceship, surrounded now by full-coverage screen, took off.</p>
			<p>Kinnison paid no attention to ship or course; orders had been given long since and would be carried out. Instead, he lowered his burden to the floor, spread her out flat, and sought out and removed item after item of wiring, apparatus, and offensive and defensive armament. He did not undress her⁠—quite⁠—but he made completely certain that the only weapons left to the young lady were those with which Nature had endowed her. And, Northrop having taken care of his alleged cousin with equal thoroughness, the small-arms were sent out and both doors of the room were securely locked.</p>
			<p>“Now, Hellcat Hazel DeForce,” Kinnison said, conversationally, “You can snap out of it any time⁠—you’ve been back to normal for at least two minutes. You’ve found out that your famous sex-appeal won’t work. There’s nothing loose you can grab, and you’re too smart an operator to tackle me barehanded. Who’s the captain of your team⁠—you or the clotheshorse?”</p>
			<p>“Clotheshorse!” the statuesque brunette exclaimed, but her protests were drowned out. The blonde could⁠—and did⁠—talk louder, faster, and rougher.</p>
			<p>“Do you think you can get away with <em>this</em>?” she demanded. “Why, you …” and the unexpurgated, trenchant, brilliantly detailed characterization could have seared its way through four-ply asbestos. “And just what do you think you’re going to do with me?”</p>
			<p>“As to the first, I think so,” Kinnison replied, ignoring the deep-space verbiage. “As to the second⁠—as of now I don’t know. What would you do if our situations were reversed?”</p>
			<p>“I’d blast you to a cinder⁠—or else take a knife and. …”</p>
			<p>“Hazel!” the brunette cautioned sharply. “Careful! You’ll touch them off and they’ll. …”</p>
			<p>“Shut up, Jane! They won’t hurt us any more than they have already; it’s psychologically impossible. Isn’t that true, copper?” Hazel lighted a cigarette, inhaled deeply, and blew a cloud of smoke at Kinnison’s face.</p>
			<p>“Pretty much so, I guess,” the Lensman admitted, frankly enough, “but we can put you away for the rest of your lives.”</p>
			<p>“Space-happy? Or do you think I am?” she sneered. “What would you use for a case? We’re as safe as if we were in God’s pocket. And besides, our positions <em>will</em> be reversed pretty quick. You may not know it, but the fastest ships in space are chasing us, right now.”</p>
			<p>“For once you’re wrong. We’ve got plenty of legs ourselves and we’re blasting for rendezvous with a task-force. But enough of this chatter. I want to know what job you’re on and why you picked on us. Give.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, does ‘oo?” Hazel cooed, venomously. “Come and sit on mama’s lap, itty bitty soldier boy, and she’ll tell you everything you want to know.”</p>
			<p>Both Lensmen probed, then, with everything they had, but learned nothing of value. The women did not know what the Patrolmen were trying to do, but they were so intensely hostile that their mental blocks, unconscious although they were, were as effective as full-driven thought screens against the most insidious approaches the men could make.</p>
			<p>“Anything in their handbags, Mase?” Jack asked, finally.</p>
			<p>“I’ll look. … Nothing much⁠—just this,” and the very tonelessness of Northrop’s voice made Jack look up quickly.</p>
			<p>“Just a letter from the boyfriend.” Hazel shrugged her shoulders. “Nothing hot⁠—not even warm⁠—go ahead and read it.”</p>
			<p>“Not interested in what it says, but it might be smart to develop it, envelope and all, for invisible ink and whatnot.” He did so, deeming it a worthwhile expenditure of time. He already knew what the hidden message was; but no one not of the Patrol should know that no transmission of intelligence, however coded or garbled or disguised or by whatever means sent, could be concealed from any wearer of Arisia’s Lens.</p>
			<p>“Listen, Hazel,” Kinnison said, holding up the now slightly stained paper. “ ‘Three six two’⁠—that’s you, I suppose, and you’re the squad leader⁠—‘Men mentioned previously being investigated stop assign three nine eight’⁠—that must be you, Jane⁠—‘and make acquaintance stop if no further instructions received by eighteen hundred hours liquidate immediately stop party one.’”</p>
			<p>The blond operative lost for the first time her brazen control. “Why … that code is <em>unbreakable</em>!” she gasped.</p>
			<p>“Wrong again, Gentle Alice. Some of us are specialists.” He directed a thought at Northrop. “This changes things slightly, Mase. I was going to turn them loose, but now I don’t know. Better we take it up with the boss, don’t you think?”</p>
			<p>“Pos-i-<em>tive</em>-ly!”</p>
			<p>Samms was called, and considered the matter for approximately one minute. “Your first idea was right, Jack. Let them go. The message may be helpful and informative, but the women would not. They know nothing. Congratulations, boys, on the complete success of Operation Red Herring.”</p>
			<p>“Ouch!” Jack grimaced mentally to his partner after the First Lensman had cut off. “They know enough to be in on bumping you and me off, but that ain’t important, says he!”</p>
			<p>“And it ain’t, bub,” Northrop grinned back. “Moderately so, maybe, if they had got us, but not at all so now they can’t. The Lensmen have landed and the situation is well in hand. It is written. Selah.”</p>
			<p>“Check. Let’s wrap it up.” Jack turned to the blonde. “Come on, Hazel. Out. Number Four lifeboat. Do you want to come peaceably or shall I work on your neck again?”</p>
			<p>“You could think of other places that would be more fun.” She got up and stared directly into his eyes, her lip curling. “That is, if you were a <em>man</em> instead of a sublimated Boy Scout.”</p>
			<p>Kinnison, without a word, wheeled and unlocked a door. Hazel swaggered forward, but the taller girl hung back. “Are you sure there’s air⁠—and they’ll pick us up? Maybe they’re going to make us breathe space. …”</p>
			<p>“Huh? They haven’t got the guts,” Hazel sneered. “Come on, Jane. Number Four, you said, darling?”</p>
			<p>She led the way. Kinnison opened the portal. Jane hurried aboard, but Hazel paused and held out her arms.</p>
			<p>“Aren’t you even going to kiss mama goodbye, baby boy?” she taunted.</p>
			<p>“Better not waste much more time. We blow this boat, sealed or open, in fifteen seconds.” By what effort Kinnison held his voice level and expressionless, he hoped the wench would never know.</p>
			<p>She looked at him, started to say something, looked again. She had gone just about as far as it was safe to go. She stepped into the boat and reached for the lever. And as the valve was swinging smoothly shut the men heard a tinkling laugh, reminiscent of icicles breaking against steel bells.</p>
			<p>“Hell’s⁠—Brazen⁠—Hinges!” Kinnison wiped his forehead as the lifeboat shot away. Hazel was something brand new to him; a phenomenon with which none of his education, training, or experience had equipped him to cope. “I’ve heard about the guy who got hold of a tiger by the tail, but. …” His thought expired on a wondering, confused note.</p>
			<p>“Yeah.” Northrop was in no better case. “We won⁠—technically⁠—I guess⁠—or did we? That was a God-awful drubbing we took, mister.”</p>
			<p>“Well, we got away alive, anyway. … We’ll tell Parker his dope is correct to the proverbial twenty decimals. And now that we’ve escaped, let’s call Spud and see how things came out.”</p>
			<p>And Costigan-Jones assured them that everything had come out very well indeed. The shipment of thionite had been followed without any difficulty at all, from the spaceship clear through to Jones’ own office, and it reposed now in Department Q’s own safe, under Jones’ personal watch and ward. The pressure had lightened tremendously, just as Kinnison and Northrop had thought it would, when they set up their diversion. Costigan listened impassively to the whole story.</p>
			<p>“Now <em>should</em> I have shot her, or not?” Jack demanded. “Not whether I <em>could</em> have or not⁠—I couldn’t⁠—but <em>should</em> I have, Spud?”</p>
			<p>“I don’t know.” Costigan thought for minutes. “I don’t think so. No⁠—not in cold blood. I couldn’t have, either, and wouldn’t if I could. It wouldn’t be worth it. Somebody will shoot her some day, but not one of us⁠—unless, of course, it’s in a fight.”</p>
			<p>“Thanks, Spud; that makes me feel better. Off.”</p>
			<p>Costigan-Jones’ desk was already clear, since there was little or no paperwork connected with his position in Department Q. Hence his preparations for departure were few and simple. He merely opened the safe, stuck the package into his pocket, closed and locked the safe, and took a company ground-car to the spaceport.</p>
			<p>Nor was there any more formality about his leaving the planet. Eridan had, of course, a Customs frontier of sorts; but since Uranium <abbr>Inc.</abbr> owned Eridan in fee simple, its Customs paid no attention whatever to company ships or to low-number, gold-badge company men. Nor did Jones need ticket, passport, or visa. Company men rode company ships to and from company plants, wherever situated, without let or hindrance. Thus, wearing the aura of power of his new position⁠—and Gold Badge Number Thirty Eight⁠—George W. Jones was whisked out to the uranium ship and was shown to his cabin.</p>
			<p>Nor was it surprising that the trip from Eridan to Earth was completely without incident. This was an ordinary freighter, hauling uranium on a routine flight. Her cargo was valuable, of course⁠—the sine qua non of interstellar trade⁠—but in no sense precious. Not pirate-bait, by any means. And only two men knew that this flight was in any whit different from the one which had preceded it or the one which would follow it. If this ship was escorted or guarded the fact was not apparent: and no Patrol vessel came nearer to it than four detets⁠—Virgil Samms and Roderick Kinnison saw to that.</p>
			<p>The voyage, however, was not tedious. Jones was busy every minute. In fact, there were scarcely minutes enough in which to assimilate the material which Isaacson had given him⁠—the layouts, flow-sheets, and organization charts of Works Number Eighteen, on Tellus.</p>
			<p>And upon arrival at the private spaceport which was an integral part of Works Number Eighteen, Jones was not surprised (he knew more now than he had known a few weeks before; and infinitely more than the man on the street) to learn that the Customs men of this particular North American Port of Entry were just as complaisant as were those of Eridan. They did not bother even to count the boxes, to say nothing of inspecting them. They stamped the ship’s papers without either reading or checking them. They made a perfunctory search, it is true, of crewmen and quarters, but a low number gold badge was still a magic talisman. Unquestioned, sacrosanct, he and his baggage were escorted to the ground-car first in line.</p>
			<p>“Administration Building,” Jones-Costigan told the hacker, and that was that.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
