<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>II</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-2" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h2>
			<p>As has been said, the Hill, which had been built to be the Tellurian headquarters of the Triplanetary Service and which was now the headquarters of the half-organized Solarian Patrol, was⁠—and is⁠—a truncated, alloy-sheathed, honeycombed mountain. But, since human beings do not like to live eternally underground, no matter how beautifully lighted or how carefully and comfortably air-conditioned the dungeon may be, the Reservation spread far beyond the foot of that gray, forbidding, mirror-smooth cone of metal. Well outside that farflung Reservation there was a small city; there were hundreds of highly productive farms; and, particularly upon this bright May afternoon, there was a Recreation Park, containing, among other things, dozens of tennis courts.</p>
			<p>One of these courts was three-quarters enclosed by stands, from which a couple of hundred people were watching a match which seemed to be of some little local importance. Two men sat in a box which had seats for twenty, and watched admiringly the pair who seemed in a fair way to win in straight sets the mixed-doubles championship of the Hill.</p>
			<p>“Fine-looking couple, Rod, if I do say so myself, as well as being smooth performers.” Solarian Councillor Virgil Samms spoke to his companion as the opponents changed courts. “I still think, though, the young hussy ought to wear some clothes⁠—those white nylon shorts make her look nakeder even than usual. I told her so, too, the jade, but she keeps on wearing less and less.”</p>
			<p>“Of course,” Commissioner Roderick <abbr class="name">K.</abbr> Kinnison laughed quietly. “What did you expect? She got her hair and eyes from you, why not your hard-headedness, too? One thing, though, that’s all to the good⁠—she’s got what it takes to strip ship that way, and most of ’em haven’t. But what I can’t understand is why they don’t.⁠ ⁠…” He paused.</p>
			<p>“I don’t either. Lord knows we’ve thrown them at each other hard enough, and Jack Kinnison and Jill Samms would certainly make a pair to draw to. But if they won’t⁠ ⁠… but maybe they will yet. They’re still youngsters, and they’re friendly enough.”</p>
			<p>If Samms <i xml:lang="fr">père</i> could have been out on the court, however, instead of in the box, he would have been surprised; for young Kinnison, although smiling enough as to face, was addressing his gorgeous partner in terms which carried little indeed of friendliness.</p>
			<p>“Listen, you bird-brained, knot-headed, grandstanding half-wit!” he stormed, voice low but bitterly intense. “I ought to beat your alleged brains out! I’ve told you a thousand times to watch your own territory and <em>stay out of mine</em>! If you had been where you belonged, or even taken my signal, Frank couldn’t have made that thirty-all point; and if Lois hadn’t netted she’d’ve caught you flat-footed, a kilometer out of position, and made it deuce. What do you think you’re doing, anyway⁠—playing tennis or seeing how many innocent bystanders you can bring down out of control?”</p>
			<p>“What do <em>you</em> think?” the girl sneered, sweetly. Her tawny eyes, only a couple of inches below his own, almost emitted sparks. “And just look at who’s trying to tell who how to do what! For your information, Master Pilot John <abbr class="name">K.</abbr> Kinnison, I’ll tell you that just because you can’t quit being ‘Killer’ Kinnison even long enough to let two good friends of ours get a point now and then, or maybe even a game, is no reason why I’ve got to turn into ‘Killer’ Samms. And I’ll also tell you.⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>“You’ll tell me nothing, Jill⁠—I’m telling <em>you</em>! Start giving away points in anything and you’ll find out some day that you’ve given away too many. I’m not having any of that kind of game⁠—and as long as you’re playing with me you aren’t either⁠—or else. If you louse up this match just once more, the next ball I serve will hit the tightest part of those fancy white shorts of yours⁠—right where the hip pocket would be if they had any⁠—and it’ll raise a welt that will make you eat off of the mantel for three days. So watch your step!”</p>
			<p>“You insufferable lug! I’d like to smash this racket over your head! I’ll do it, too, and walk off the court, if you don’t.⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>The whistle blew. Virgilia Samms, all smiles, toed the baseline and became the personification and embodiment of smoothly flowing motion. The ball whizzed over the net, barely clearing it⁠—a sizzling service ace. The game went on.</p>
			<p>And a few minutes later, in the shower room, where Jack Kinnison was caroling lustily while plying a towel, a huge young man strode up and slapped him ringingly between the shoulder blades.</p>
			<p>“Congratulations, Jack, and so forth. But there’s a thing I want to ask you. Confidential, sort of⁠ ⁠… ?”</p>
			<p>“Shoot! Haven’t we been eating out of the same dish for lo, these many moons? Why the diffidence all of a sudden, Mase? It isn’t in character.”</p>
			<p>“Well⁠ ⁠… it’s⁠ ⁠… I’m a lip-reader, you know.”</p>
			<p>“Sure. We all are. What of it?”</p>
			<p>“It’s only that⁠ ⁠… well, I saw what you and Miss Samms said to each other out there, and if that was lovers’ small talk I’m a Venerian mud-puppy.”</p>
			<p>“<em>Lovers!</em> Who the hell ever said we were lovers?⁠ ⁠… Oh, you’ve been inhaling some of dad’s balloon-juice. <em>Lovers!</em> Me and that redheaded stinker⁠—that jelly-brained sapadilly? <em>Hardly!</em>”</p>
			<p>“Hold it, Jack!” The big officer’s voice was slightly edged. “You’re off course⁠—a hell of a long flit off. That girl has got everything. She’s the class of the Reservation⁠—why, she’s a regular twelve-nineteen!”</p>
			<p>“Huh?” Amazed, young Kinnison stopped drying himself and stared. “You mean to say you’ve been giving her a miss just because.⁠ ⁠…” He had started to say “because you’re the best friend I’ve got in the System,” but he did not.</p>
			<p>“Well, it would have smelled slightly cheesy, I thought.” The other man did not put into words, either, what both of them so deeply knew to be the truth. “But if you haven’t got⁠ ⁠… if it’s OK with you, of course.⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>“Stand by for five seconds⁠—I’ll take you around.”</p>
			<p>Jack threw on his uniform, and in a few minutes the two young officers, immaculate in the space-black-and-silver of the Patrol, made their way toward the women’s dressing rooms.</p>
			<p>“… but she’s all right, at that⁠ ⁠… in most ways⁠ ⁠… I guess.” Kinnison was half-apologizing for what he had said. “Outside of being chickenhearted and pigheaded, she’s a good egg. She really qualifies⁠ ⁠… most of the time. But I wouldn’t have her, bonus attached, any more than she would have me. It’s strictly mutual. You won’t fall for her, either, Mase; you’ll want to pull one of her legs off and beat the rest of her to death with it inside of a week⁠—but there’s nothing like finding things out for yourself.”</p>
			<p>In a short time Miss Samms appeared; dressed somewhat less revealingly than before in the blouse and kilts which were the mode of the moment.</p>
			<p>“Hi, Jill! This is Mase⁠—I’ve told you about him. My boat-mate. Master Electronicist Mason Northrop.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, I’ve heard about you, ’Troncist⁠—a lot.” She shook hands warmly.</p>
			<p>“He hasn’t been putting tracers on you, Jill, on accounta he figured he’d be poaching. Can you feature that? I straightened him out, though, in short order. Told him why, too, so he ought to be insulated against any voltage you can generate.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, you did? How sweet of you! But how⁠ ⁠… oh, those?” She gestured at the powerful prism binoculars, a part of the uniform of every officer of space.</p>
			<p>“Uh-huh.” Northrop wriggled, but held firm.</p>
			<p>“If I’d only been as big and husky as you are,” surveying admiringly some six feet two of altitude and two hundred-odd pounds of hard meat, gristle, and bone, “I’d have grabbed him by one ankle, whirled him around my head, and flung him into the fifteenth row of seats. What’s the matter with him, Mase, is that he was born centuries and centuries too late. He should have been an overseer when they built the pyramids⁠—flogging slaves because they wouldn’t step just so. Or better yet, one of those people it told about in those funny old books they dug up last year⁠—liege lords, or something like that, remember? With the power of life and death⁠—‘high, middle, and low justice,’ whatever that was⁠—over their vassals and their families, serfs, and serving-wenches. <em>Especially</em> serving-wenches! He likes little, cuddly baby-talkers, who pretend to be utterly spineless and completely brainless⁠—eh, Jack?”</p>
			<p>“Ouch! Touché, Jill⁠—but maybe I had it coming to me, at that. Let’s call it off, shall we? I’ll be seeing you two, hither or yon.” Kinnison turned and hurried away.</p>
			<p>“Want to know why he’s doing such a quick flit?” Jill grinned up at her companion; a bright, quick grin. “Not that he was giving up. The blonde over there⁠—the one in rocket red. Very few blondes can wear such a violent shade. Dimples Maynard.”</p>
			<p>“And is she⁠ ⁠… er⁠ ⁠… ?”</p>
			<p>“Cuddly and baby-talkish? Uh-uh. She’s a grand person. I was just popping off; so was he. You know that neither of us really meant half of what we said⁠ ⁠… or⁠ ⁠… at least.⁠ ⁠…” Her voice died away.</p>
			<p>“I don’t know whether I do or not,” Northrop replied, awkwardly but honestly. “That was savage stuff if there ever was any. I can’t see for the life of me why you two⁠—two of the world’s finest people⁠—should have to tear into each other that way. Do you?”</p>
			<p>“I don’t know that I ever thought of it like that.” Jill caught her lower lip between her teeth. “He’s splendid, really, and I like him a lot⁠—usually. We get along perfectly most of the time. We don’t fight at all except when we’re too close together⁠ ⁠… and then we fight about anything and everything⁠ ⁠… say, suppose that that could be it? Like charges, repelling each other inversely as the square of the distance? That’s about the way it seems to be.”</p>
			<p>“Could be, and I’m glad.” The man’s face cleared. “And I’m a charge of the opposite sign. Let’s go!”</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>And in Virgil Samms’ deeply-buried office, Civilization’s two strongest men were deep in conversation.</p>
			<p>“… troubles enough to keep four men of our size awake nights.” Samms’ voice was light, but his eyes were moody and somber. “You can probably whip yours, though, in time. They’re mostly in one solar system; a short flit covers the rest. Languages and customs are known. But how⁠—<em>how</em>⁠—can legal processes work efficiently⁠—work at all, for that matter⁠—when a man can commit a murder or a pirate can loot a spaceship and be a hundred parsecs away before the crime is even discovered? How can a Tellurian John Law find a criminal on a strange world that knows nothing whatever of our Patrol, with a completely alien language⁠—maybe no language at all⁠—where it takes months even to find out who and where⁠—if any⁠—the native police officers are? But there must be a way, Rod⁠—there’s <em>got</em> to be a way!” Samms slammed his open hand resoundingly against his desk’s bare top. “And by God I’ll find it⁠—the Patrol <em>will</em> come out on top!”</p>
			<p>“ ‘Crusader’ Samms, now and forever!” There was no trace of mockery in Kinnison’s voice or expression, but only friendship and admiration. “And I’ll bet you do. Your Interstellar Patrol, or whatever.⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>“Galactic Patrol. I know what the name of it is going to be, if nothing else.”</p>
			<p>“… is just as good as in the bag, right now. You’ve done a job so far, Virge. This whole system, Nevia, the colonies on Aldebaran <span epub:type="z3998:roman">II</span> and other planets, even Valeria, as tight as a drum. Funny about Valeria, isn’t it.⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>There was a moment of silence, then Kinnison went on:</p>
			<p>“But wherever diamonds are, there go Dutchmen. And Dutch women go wherever their men do. And, in spite of medical advice, Dutch babies arrive. Although a lot of the adults died⁠—three <abbr class="initialism">G</abbr>’s is no joke⁠—practically all of the babies keep on living. Developing bones and muscles to fit⁠—walking at a year and a half old⁠—living normally⁠—they say that the third generation will be perfectly at home there.”</p>
			<p>“Which shows that the human animal is more adaptable than some ranking medicos had believed, is all. Don’t try to sidetrack me, Rod. You know as well as I do what we’re up against; the new headaches that interstellar commerce is bringing with it. New vices⁠—drugs⁠—thionite, for instance; we haven’t been able to get an inkling of an idea as to where that stuff is coming from. And I don’t have to tell you what piracy has done to insurance rates.”</p>
			<p>“I’ll say not⁠—look at the price of Aldebaranian cigars, the only kind fit to smoke! You’ve given up, then, on the idea that Arisia is the pirates’ <abbr class="initialism">G.H.Q.</abbr>?”</p>
			<p>“Definitely. It isn’t. The pirates are even more afraid of it than tramp spacemen are. It’s out of bounds⁠—absolutely forbidden territory, apparently⁠—to everybody, my best operatives included. All we know about it is the name⁠—Arisia⁠—that our planetographers gave it. It is the first completely incomprehensible thing I have ever experienced. I am going out there myself as soon as I can take the time⁠—not that I expect to crack a thing that my best men couldn’t touch, but there have been so many different and conflicting reports⁠—no two stories agree on anything except in that no one could get anywhere near the planet⁠—that I feel the need of some firsthand information. Want to come along?”</p>
			<p>“Try to keep me from it!”</p>
			<p>“But at that, we shouldn’t be too surprised,” Samms went on, thoughtfully. “Just beginning to scratch the surface as we are, we should expect to encounter peculiar, baffling⁠—even completely inexplicable things. Facts, situations, events, and beings for which our one-system experience could not possibly have prepared us. In fact, we already have. If, ten years ago, anyone had told you that such a race as the Rigellians existed, what would you have thought? One ship went there, you know⁠—once. One hour in any Rigellian city⁠—one minute in a Rigellian automobile⁠—drives a Tellurian insane.”</p>
			<p>“I see your point.” Kinnison nodded. “Probably I would have ordered a mental examination. And the Palainians are even worse. People⁠—if you can call them that⁠—who live on Pluto and <em>like</em> it! Entities so alien that nobody, as far as I know, understands them. But you don’t have to go even that far from home to locate a job of unscrewing the inscrutable. Who, what, and why⁠—and for how long⁠—was Gray Roger? And, not far behind him, is this young Bergenholm of yours. And by the way, you never did give me the lowdown on how come it was the ‘Bergenholm,’ and not the ‘Rodebush-Cleveland,’ that made trans-galactic commerce possible and caused nine-tenths of our headaches. As I get the story, Bergenholm wasn’t⁠—isn’t⁠—even an engineer.”</p>
			<p>“Didn’t I? Thought I did. He wasn’t, and isn’t. Well, the original Rodebush-Cleveland free drive was a killer, you know.⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>“<em>How</em> I know!” Kinnison exclaimed, feelingly.</p>
			<p>“They beat their brains out and ate their hearts out for months, without getting it any better. Then, one day, this kid Bergenholm ambles into their shop⁠—big, awkward, stumbling over his own feet. He gazes innocently at the thing for a couple of minutes, then says:</p>
			<p>“ ‘Why don’t you use uranium instead of iron and rewind it so it will put out a waveform like this, with humps here, and here; instead of there, and there?’ and he draws a couple of freehand, but really beautiful curves.</p>
			<p>“ ‘Why should we?’ they squawk at him.</p>
			<p>“ ‘Because it will work that way,’ he says, and ambles out as unconcernedly as he came in. Can’t⁠—or won’t⁠—say another word.</p>
			<p>“Well in sheer desperation, they tried it⁠—and it <strong>worked</strong>! And nobody has ever had a minute’s trouble with a Bergenholm since. That’s why Rodebush and Cleveland both insisted on the name.”</p>
			<p>“I see; and it points up what I just said. But if he’s such a mental giant, why isn’t he getting results with his own problem, the meteor? Or is he?”</p>
			<p>“No⁠ ⁠… or at least he wasn’t as of last night. But there’s a note on my pad that he wants to see me sometime today⁠—suppose we have him come in now?”</p>
			<p>“Fine! I’d like to talk to him, if it’s OK with you and with him.”</p>
			<p>The young scientist was called in, and was introduced to the Commissioner.</p>
			<p>“Go ahead, Doctor Bergenholm,” Samms suggested then. “You may talk to both of us, just as freely as though you and I were alone.”</p>
			<p>“I have, as you already know, been called psychic,” Bergenholm began, abruptly. “It is said that I dream dreams, see visions, hear voices, and so on. That I operate on hunches. That I am a genius. Now I very definitely am <em>not</em> a genius⁠—unless my understanding of the meaning of that word is different from that of the rest of mankind.”</p>
			<p>Bergenholm paused. Samms and Kinnison looked at each other. The latter broke the short silence.</p>
			<p>“The Councillor and I have just been discussing the fact that there are a great many things we do not know; that with the extension of our activities into new fields, the occurrence of the impossible has become almost a commonplace. We are able, I believe, to listen with open minds to anything you have to say.”</p>
			<p>“Very well. But first, please know that I am a scientist. As such, I am trained to observe; to think calmly, clearly, and analytically; to test every hypothesis. I do not believe at all in the so-called supernatural. This universe did not come into being, it does not continue to be, except by the operation of natural and immutable laws. And I mean <em>immutable</em>, gentlemen. Everything that has ever happened, that is happening now, or that ever is to happen, was, is, and will be statistically connected with its predecessor event and with its successor event. If I did not believe that implicitly, I would lose all faith in the scientific method. For if one single ‘supernatural’ event or thing had ever occurred or existed it would have constituted an entirely unpredictable event and would have initiated a series⁠—a succession⁠—of such events; a state of things which no scientist will or can believe possible in an orderly universe.</p>
			<p>“At the same time, I recognize the fact that I myself have done things⁠—caused events to occur, if you prefer⁠—that I cannot explain to you or to any other human being in any symbology known to our science; and it is about an even more inexplicable⁠—call it ‘hunch’ if you like⁠—that I asked to have a talk with you today.”</p>
			<p>“But you are arguing in circles,” Samms protested. “Or are you trying to set up a paradox?”</p>
			<p>“Neither. I am merely clearing the way for a somewhat startling thing I am to say later on. You know, of course, that any situation with which a mind is unable to cope; a really serious dilemma which it cannot resolve; will destroy that mind⁠—frustration, escape from reality, and so on. You also will realize that I must have become cognizant of my own peculiarities long before anyone else did or could?”</p>
			<p>“Ah. I see. Yes, of course.” Samms, intensely interested, leaned forward. “Yet your present personality is adequately, splendidly integrated. How could you possibly have overcome⁠—reconciled⁠—a situation so full of conflict?”</p>
			<p>“You are, I think, familiar with my parentage?” Samms, keen as he was, did not consider it noteworthy that the big Norwegian answered his question only by asking one of his own.</p>
			<p>“Yes⁠ ⁠… oh, I’m beginning to see⁠ ⁠… but Commissioner Kinnison has not had access to your dossier. Go ahead.”</p>
			<p>“My father is <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Hjalmar Bergenholm. My mother, before her marriage, was <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Olga Bjornson. Both were, and are, nuclear physicists⁠—very good ones. Pioneers, they have been called. They worked, and are still working, in the newest, outermost fringes of the field.”</p>
			<p>“Oh!” Kinnison exclaimed. “A mutant? Born with second sight⁠—or whatever it is?”</p>
			<p>“Not second sight, as history describes the phenomenon, no. The records do not show that any such faculty was ever demonstrated to the satisfaction of any competent scientific investigator. What I have is something else. Whether or not it will breed true is an interesting topic of speculation, but one having nothing to do with the problem now in hand. To return to the subject, I resolved my dilemma long since. There is, I am absolutely certain, a science of the mind which is as definite, as positive, as immutable of law, as is the science of the physical. While I will make no attempt to prove it to you, I <em>know</em> that such a science exists, and that I was born with the ability to perceive at least some elements of it.</p>
			<p>“Now to the matter of the meteor of the Patrol. That emblem was and is purely physical. The pirates have just as able scientists as we have. What physical science can devise and synthesize, physical science can analyze and duplicate. There is a point, however, beyond which physical science cannot go. It can neither analyze nor imitate the tangible products of that which I have so loosely called the science of the mind.</p>
			<p>“I know, Councillor Samms, what the Triplanetary Service needs; something vastly more than its meteor. I also know that the need will become greater and greater as the sphere of action of the Patrol expands. Without a really efficient symbol, the Solarian Patrol will be hampered even more than the Triplanetary Service; and its logical extension into the Space Patrol, or whatever that larger organization may be called, will be definitely impossible. We need something which will identify any representative of Civilization, positively and unmistakably, wherever he may be. It must be impossible of duplication, or even of imitation, to which end it must kill any unauthorized entity who attempts imposture. It must operate as a telepath between its owner and any other living intelligence, of however high or low degree, so that mental communication, so much clearer and faster than physical, will be possible without the laborious learning of language; or between us and such peoples as those of Rigel Four or of Palain Seven, both of whom we know to be of high intelligence and who must already be conversant with telepathy.”</p>
			<p>“Are you or have you been, reading my mind?” Samms asked quietly.</p>
			<p>“No,” Bergenholm replied flatly. “It is not and has not been necessary. Any man who can think, who has really considered the question, and who has the good of Civilization at heart, must have come to the same conclusions.”</p>
			<p>“Probably so, at that. But no more side issues. You have a solution of some kind worked out, or you would not be here. What is it?”</p>
			<p>“It is that you, Solarian Councillor Samms, should go to Arisia as soon as possible.”</p>
			<p>“Arisia!” Samms exclaimed, and:</p>
			<p>“Arisia! Of all the hells in space, why Arisia? And how can we make the approach? Don’t you know that <em>nobody</em> can get anywhere near that damn planet?”</p>
			<p>Bergenholm shrugged his shoulders and spread both arms wide in a pantomime of complete helplessness.</p>
			<p>“How do you know⁠—another of your hunches?” Kinnison went on. “Or did somebody tell you something? <em>Where</em> did you get it?”</p>
			<p>“It is not a hunch,” the Norwegian replied, positively. “No one told me anything. But I <em>know</em>⁠—as definitely as I know that the combustion of hydrogen in oxygen will yield water⁠—that the Arisians are very well versed in that which I have called the science of the mind; that if Virgil Samms goes to Arisia he will obtain the symbol he needs; that he will never obtain it otherwise. As to <em>how</em> I know these things⁠ ⁠… I can’t⁠ ⁠… I just⁠ ⁠… I <em>know</em> it, I tell you!”</p>
			<p>Without another word, without asking permission to leave, Bergenholm whirled around and hurried out. Samms and Kinnison stared at each other.</p>
			<p>“Well?” Kinnison asked, quizzically.</p>
			<p>“I’m going. Now. Whether I can be spared or not, and whether you think I’m out of control or not. I believe him, every word⁠—and besides, there’s the Bergenholm. How about you? Coming?”</p>
			<p>“Yes. Can’t say that I’m sold one hundred percent; but, as you say, the Bergenholm is a hard fact to shrug off. And at minimum rating, it’s got to be tried. What are you taking? Not a fleet, probably⁠—the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Boise</i>? Or the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Chicago</i>?” It was the Commissioner of Public Safety speaking now, the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces. “The <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Chicago</i>, I’d say⁠—the fastest and strongest thing in space.”</p>
			<p>“Recommendation approved. Blastoff; twelve hundred hours tomorrow!”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
